
=========================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
=========================================================================================

YEAR OF GLAD.6 
YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT.18 
1 APRIL — YEAR OF THE TUCKS MEDICATED PAD.27 
9 MAY — YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT.31 



=========================================================================================
TEXT
=========================================================================================



YEAR OF GLAD 



I am seated in an office, surrounded by heads and bodies. My posture is consciously 
congruent to the shape of my hard chair. This is a cold room in University 
Administration, wood-walled. Remington-hung, double-windowed against the 
November heat, insulated from Administrative sounds by the reception area outside, at 
which Uncle Charles, Mr. deLint and I were lately received. 

I am in here. 

Three faces have resolved into place above summer-weight sportcoats and half- 
Windsors across a polished pine conference table shiny with the spidered light of an 
Arizona noon. These are three Deans — of Admissions, Academic Affairs, Athletic 
Affairs. I do not know which face belongs to whom. 

I believe I appear neutral, maybe even pleasant, though I've been coached to err on 
the side of neutrality and not attempt what would feel to me like a pleasant expression 
or smile. 

I have committed to crossing my legs I hope carefully, ankle on knee, hands together 
in the lap of my slacks. My fingers are mated into a mirrored series of what manifests, to 
me, as the letter X. The interview room's other personnel include: the University's 
Director of Composition, its varsity tennis coach, and Academy prorector Mr. A. deLint. 
C.T. is beside me; the others sit, stand and stand, respectively, at the periphery of my 
focus. The tennis coach jingles pocket-change. There is something vaguely digestive 
about the room's odor. The high-traction sole of my complimentary Nike sneaker runs 
parallel to the wobbling loafer of my mother's half-brother, here in his capacity as 
Headmaster, sitting in the chair to what I hope is my immediate right, also facing Deans. 

The Dean at left, a lean yellowish man whose fixed smile nevertheless has the 
impermanent quality of something stamped into uncooperative material, is a 



personality-type I've come lately to appreciate, the type who delays need of any 
response from me by relating my side of the story for me, to me. Passed a packet of 
computer-sheets by the shaggy lion of a Dean at center, he is speaking more or less to 
these pages, smiling down. 

'You are Harold Incandenza, eighteen, date of secondary-school graduation 
approximately one month from now, attending the Enfield Tennis Academy, Enfield, 
Massachusetts, a boarding school, where you reside.' His reading glasses are 
rectangular, court-shaped, the sidelines at top and bottom. 'You are, according to Coach 
White and Dean [unintelligible], a regionally, nationally, and continentally ranked junior 
tennis player, a potential O.N.A.N.C.A.A. athlete of substantial promise, recruited by 
Coach White via correspondence with Dr. Tavis here commencing... February of this 
year.' The top page is removed and brought around neatly to the bottom of the sheaf, at 
intervals. 'You have been in residence at the Enfield Tennis Academy since age seven.' 

I am debating whether to risk scratching the right side of my jaw, where there is a 
wen. 

'Coach White informs our offices that he holds the Enfield Tennis Academy's program 
and achievements in high regard, that the University of Arizona tennis squad has 
profited from the prior matriculation of several former E.T.A. alumni, one of whom was 
one Mr. Aubrey F. deLint, who appears also to be with you here today. Coach White and 
his staff have given us —' 

The yellow administrator's usage is on the whole undistinguished, though I have to 
admit he's made himself understood. The Director of Composition seems to have more 
than the normal number of eyebrows. The Dean at right is looking at my face a bit 
strangely. 

Uncle Charles is saying that though he can anticipate that the Deans might be 
predisposed to weigh what he avers as coming from his possible appearance as a kind of 
cheerleader for E.T.A., he can assure the assembled Deans that all this is true, and that 
the Academy has presently in residence no fewer than a third of the continent's top 
thirty juniors, in age brackets all across the board, and that I here, who go by 'Hal,' 
usually, am 'right up there among the very cream.' Right and center Deans smile 
professionally; the heads of deLint and the coach incline as the Dean at left clears his 
throat: 

'— belief that you could well make, even as a freshman, a real contribution to this 
University's varsity tennis program. We are pleased,' he either says or reads, removing a 
page, 'that a competition of some major sort here has brought you down and given us 
the chance to sit down and chat together about your application and potential 
recruitment and matriculation and scholarship.' 

'I've been asked to add that Hal here is seeded third. Boys' 18-and-Under Singles, in 
the prestigious WhataBurger Southwest Junior Invitational out at the Randolph Tennis 
Center —' says what I infer is Athletic Affairs, his cocked head showing a freckled scalp. 

'Out at Randolph Park, near the outstanding El Con Marriott,' C.T. inserts, 'a venue the 
whole contingent's been vocal about finding absolutely top-hole thus far, which —' 

'Just so. Chuck, and that according to Chuck here Hal has already justified his seed, 
he's reached the semifinals as of this morning's apparently impressive win, and that he'll 



be playing out at the Center again tomorrow, against the winner of a quarterfinal game 
tonight, and so will be playing tomorrow at I believe scheduled for 0830 —' 

'Try to get under way before the godawful heat out there. Though of course a dry 
heat.' 

and has apparently already qualified for this winter's Continental Indoors, up in 
Edmonton, Kirk tells me —' cocking further to look up and left at the varsity coach, 
whose smile's teeth are radiant against a violent sunburn — 'Which is something 
indeed.' He smiles, looking at me. 'Did we get all that right Hal.' 

C.T. has crossed his arms casually; their triceps' flesh is webbed with mottle in the air- 
conditioned sunlight. 'You sure did. Bill.' He smiles. The two halves of his mustache 
never quite match. 'And let me say if I may that Hal's excited, excited to be invited for 
the third year running to the Invitational again, to be back here in a community he has 
real affection for, to visit with your alumni and coaching staff, to have already justified 
his high seed in this week's not unstiff competition, to as they say still be in it without 
the fat woman in the Viking hat having sung, so to speak, but of course most of all to 
have a chance to meet you gentlemen and have a look at the facilities here. Everything 
here is absolutely top-slot, from what he's seen.' 

There is a silence. DeLint shifts his back against the room's panelling and recenters his 
weight. My uncle beams and straightens a straight watchband. 62.5% of the room's 
faces are directed my way, pleasantly expectant. My chest bumps like a dryer with 
shoes in it. I compose what I project will be seen as a smile. I turn this way and that, 
slightly, sort of directing the expression to everyone in the room. 

There is a new silence. The yellow Dean's eyebrows go circumflex. The two other 
Deans look to the Director of Composition. The tennis coach has moved to stand at the 
broad window, feeling at the back of his crewcut. Uncle Charles strokes the forearm 
above his watch. Sharp curved palm-shadows move slightly over the pine table's shine, 
the one head's shadow a black moon. 

'Is Hal all right. Chuck?' Athletic Affairs asks. 'Hal just seemed to... well, grimace. Is he 
in pain? Are you in pain, son?' 

'Hal's right as rain,' smiles my uncle, soothing the air with a casual hand. 'Just a bit of a 
let's call it maybe a facial tic, slightly, at all the adrenaline of being here on your 
impressive campus, justifying his seed so far without dropping a set, receiving that 
official written offer of not only waivers but a living allowance from Coach White here, 
on Pac 10 letterhead, being ready in all probability to sign a National Letter of Intent 
right here and now this very day, he's indicated to me.' C.T. looks to me, his look 
horribly mild. I do the safe thing, relaxing every muscle in my face, emptying out all 
expression. I stare carefully into the Kekulean knot of the middle Dean's necktie. 

My silent response to the expectant silence begins to affect the air of the room, the 
bits of dust and sportcoat-lint stirred around by the AC's vents dancing jaggedly in the 
slanted plane of windowlight, the air over the table like the sparkling space just above a 
fresh-poured seltzer. The coach, in a slight accent neither British nor Australian, is telling 
C.T. that the whole application-interface process, while usually just a pleasant formality, 
is probably best accentuated by letting the applicant speak up for himself. Right and 
center Deans have inclined together in soft conference, forming a kind of tepee of skin 



and hair. I presume it's probably facilitate that the tennis coach mistook for accentuate, 
though accelerate, while clunkier than facilitate, is from a phonetic perspective more 
sensible, as a mistake. The Dean with the flat yellow face has leaned forward, his lips 
drawn back from his teeth in what I see as concern. His hands come together on the 
conference table's surface. His own fingers look like they mate as my own four-X series 
dissolves and I hold tight to the sides of my chair. 

We need candidly to chat re potential problems with my application, they and I, he is 
beginning to say. He makes a reference to candor and its value. 

'The issues my office faces with the application materials on file from you, Hal, involve 
some test scores.' He glances down at a colorful sheet of standardized scores in the 
trench his arms have made. 'The Admissions staff is looking at standardized test scores 
from you that are, as I'm sure you know and can explain, are, shall we say... subnormal.' 
I'm to explain. 

It's clear that this really pretty sincere yellow Dean at left is Admissions. And surely the 
little aviarian figure at right is Athletics, then, because the facial creases of the shaggy 
middle Dean are now pursed in a kind of distanced affront, an I'm-eating-something- 
that-makes-me-really-appreciate-the-presence-of-whatever-l'm-drinking-along-with-it 
look that spells professionally Academic reservations. An uncomplicated loyalty to 
standards, then, at center. My uncle looks to Athletics as if puzzled. He shifts slightly in 
his chair. 

The incongruity between Admissions's hand- and face-color is almost wild, '—verbal 
scores that are just quite a bit closer to zero than we're comfortable with, as against a 
secondary-school transcript from the institution where both your mother and her 
brother are administrators —' reading directly out of the sheaf inside his arms' ellipse — 
'that this past year, yes, has fallen off a bit, but by the word I mean "fallen off" to 
outstanding from three previous years of frankly incredible.' 

'Off the charts.' 

'Most institutions do not even have grades of A with multiple pluses after it,' says the 
Director of Composition, his expression impossible to interpret. 

'This kind of... how shall I put it... incongruity,' Admissions says, his expression frank 
and concerned, 'I've got to tell you sends up a red flag of potential concern during the 
admissions process.' 

'We thus invite you to explain the appearance of incongruity if not outright 
shenanigans.' Students has a tiny piping voice that's absurd coming out of a face this big. 

'Surely by incredible you meant very very very impressive, as opposed to literally 
quote "incredible," surely,' says C.T., seeming to watch the coach at the window 
massaging the back of his neck. The huge window gives out on nothing more than 
dazzling sunlight and cracked earth with heat-shimmers over it. 

'Then there is before us the matter of not the required two but nine separate 
application essays, some of which of nearly monograph-length, each without exception 
being —' different sheet — 'the adjective various evaluators used was quote "stellar" —' 

Dir. of Comp.: 'I made in my assessment deliberate use of lapidary and effete.' 

'— but in areas and with titles. I'm sure you recall quite well, Hal: "Neoclassical 
Assumptions in Contemporary Prescriptive Grammar," "The Implications of Post-Fourier 



Transformations for a Holographically Mimetic Cinema," "The Emergence of Heroic 
Stasis in Broadcast Entertainment" —' 

' "Montague Grammar and the Semantics of Physical Modality"?' 

' "A Man Who Began to Suspect He Was Made of Glass"?' 

' "Tertiary Symbolism in Justinian Erotica"?' 

Now showing broad expanses of recessed gum. 'Suffice to say that there's some frank 
and candid concern about the recipient of these unfortunate test scores, though 
perhaps explainable test scores, being these essays' sole individual author.' 

'I'm not sure Hal's sure just what's being implied here,' my uncle says. The Dean at 
center is fingering his lapels as he interprets distasteful computed data. 

'What the University is saying here is that from a strictly academic point of view there 
are admission problems that Hal needs to try to help us iron out. A matriculant's first 
role at the University is and must be as a student. We couldn't admit a student we have 
reason to suspect can't cut the mustard, no matter how much of an asset he might be 
on the field.' 

'Dean Sawyer means the court, of course. Chuck,' Athletic Affairs says, head severely 
cocked so he's including the White person behind him in the address somehow. 'Not to 
mention O.N.A.N.C.A.A. regulations and investigators always snuffling around for some 
sort of whiff of the smell of impropriety.' 

The varsity tennis coach looks at his own watch. 

'Assuming these board scores are accurate reflectors of true capacity in this case,' 
Academic Affairs says, his high voice serious and sotto, still looking at the file before him 
as if it were a plate of something bad. Til tell you right now my opinion is it wouldn't be 
fair. It wouldn't be fair to the other applicants. Wouldn't be fair to the University 
community.' He looks at me. 'And it'd be especially unfair to Hal himself. Admitting a 
boy we see as simply an athletic asset would amount to just using that boy. We're under 
myriad scrutiny to make sure we're not using anybody. Your board results, son, indicate 
that we could be accused of using you.' 

Uncle Charles is asking Coach White to ask the Dean of Athletic Affairs whether the 
weather over scores would be as heavy if I were, say, a revenue-raising football prodigy. 
The familiar panic at feeling misperceived is rising, and my chest bumps and thuds. I 
expend energy on remaining utterly silent in my chair, empty, my eyes two great pale 
zeros. People have promised to get me through this. 

Uncle C.T., though, has the pinched look of the cornered. His voice takes on an odd 
timbre when he's cornered, as if he were shouting as he receded. 'Hal's grades at E.T.A., 
which is I should stress an Academy, not simply a camp or factory, accredited by both 
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the North American Sports Academy 
Association, it's focused on the total needs of the player and student, founded by a tow¬ 
ering intellectual figure whom I hardly need name, here, and based by him on the 
rigorous Oxbridge Quadrivium-Trivium curricular model, a school fully staffed and 
equipped, by a fully certified staff, should show that my nephew here can cut just about 
any Pac 10 mustard that needs cutting, and that —' 

DeLint is moving toward the tennis coach, who is shaking his head. 

'— would be able to see a distinct flavor of minor-sport prejudice about this whole 



thing,' C.T. says, crossing and recrossing his legs as I listen, composed and staring. 

The room's carbonated silence is now hostile. 'I think it's time to let the actual 
applicant himself speak out on his own behalf,' Academic Affairs says very quietly. 'This 
seems somehow impossible with you here, sir.' 

Athletics smiles tiredly under a hand that massages the bridge of his nose. 'Maybe 
you'd excuse us for a moment and wait outside. Chuck.' 

'Coach White could accompany Mr. Tavis and his associate out to reception,' the 
yellow Dean says, smiling into my unfocused eyes. 

'— led to believe this had all been ironed out in advance, from the —' C.T. is saying as 
he and deLint are shown to the door. The tennis coach extends a hypertrophied arm. 
Athletics says 'We're all friends and colleagues here.' 

This is not working out. It strikes me that EXIT signs would look to a native speaker of 
Latin like red-lit signs that say HE LEAVES. I would yield to the urge to bolt for the door 
ahead of them if I could know that bolting for the door is what the men in this room 
would see. DeLint is murmuring something to the tennis coach. Sounds of keyboards, 
phone consoles as the door is briefly opened, then firmly shut. I am alone among 
administrative heads. 

'— offense intended to anyone,' Athletic Affairs is saying, his sportcoat tan and his 
necktie insigniated in tiny print — 'beyond just physical abilities out there in play, which 
believe me we respect, wont, believe me.' 

'— question about it we wouldn't be so anxious to chat with you directly, see?' 

'— that we've known in processing several prior applications through Coach White's 
office that the Enfield School is operated, however impressively, by close relations of 
first your brother, who I can still remember the way White's predecessor Maury Klamkin 
wooed that kid, so that grades' objectivity can be all too easily called into question —' 

'By whomsoever's calling — N.A.A.U.P., ill-willed Pac 10 programs, O.N.A.N.C.A.A. —' 
The essays are old ones, yes, but they are mine; de moi. But they are, yes, old, not 
quite on the application's instructed subject of Most Meaningful Educational Experience 
Ever. If I'd done you one from the last year, it would look to you like some sort of 
infant's random stabs on a keyboard, and to you, who use whomsoever as a subject. And 
in this new smaller company, the Director of Composition seems abruptly to have 
actuated, emerged as both the Alpha of the pack here and way more effeminate than 
he'd seemed at first, standing hip-shot with a hand on his waist, walking with a roll to 
his shoulders, jingling change as he pulls up his pants as he slides into the chair still 
warm from C.T.'s bottom, crossing his legs in a way that inclines him well into my 
personal space, so that I can see multiple eyebrow-tics and capillary webs in the oysters 
below his eyes and smell fabric-softener and the remains of a breath-mint turned sour. 

'...a bright, solid, but very shy boy, we know about your being very shy, Kirk White's 
told us what your athletically built if rather stand-offish younger instructor told him,' the 
Director says softly, cupping what I feel to be a hand over my sportcoat's biceps (surely 
not), 'who simply needs to swallow hard and trust and tell his side of the story to these 
gentlemen who bear no maliciousness none at all but are doing our jobs and trying to 
look out for everyone's interests at the same time.' 

I can picture deLint and White sitting with their elbows on their knees in the 



defecatory posture of all athletes at rest, deLint staring at his huge thumbs, while C.T. in 
the reception area paces in a tight ellipse, speaking into his portable phone. I have been 
coached for this like a Don before a RICO hearing. A neutral and affectless silence. The 
sort of all-defensive game Schtitt used to have me play: the best defense: let everything 
bounce off you; do nothing. I'd tell you all you want and more, if the sounds I made 
could be what you hear. 

Athletics with his head out from under his wing: to avoid admission procedures 

that could be seen as primarily athletics-oriented. It could be a mess, son.' 

'Bill means the appearance, not necessarily the real true facts of the matter, which 
you alone can fill in,' says the Director of Composition. 

'— the appearance of the high athletic ranking, the subnormal scores, the over¬ 
academic essays, the incredible grades vortexing out of what could be seen as a 
nepotistic situation.' 

The yellow Dean has leaned so far forward that his tie is going to have a horizontal 
dent from the table-edge, his face sallow and kindly and no-shit-whatever: 

'Look here, Mr. Incandenza, Hal, please just explain to me why we couldn't be accused 
of using you, son. Why nobody could come and say to us, why, look here. University of 
Arizona, here you are using a boy for just his body, a boy so shy and withdrawn he won't 
speak up for himself, a jock with doctored marks and a store-bought application.' 

The Brewster's-Angle light of the tabletop appears as a rose flush behind my closed 
lids. I cannot make myself understood. 'I am not just a jock,' I say slowly. Distinctly. 'My 
transcript for the last year might have been dickied a bit, maybe, but that was to get me 
over a rough spot. The grades prior to that are de moi.' My eyes are closed; the room is 
silent. 'I cannot make myself understood, now.' I am speaking slowly and distinctly. 'Call 
it something I ate.' 

It's funny what you don't recall. Our first home, in the suburb of Weston, which I 
barely remember — my eldest brother Orin says he can remember being in the home's 
backyard with our mother in the early spring, helping the Moms till some sort of garden 
out of the cold yard. March or early April. The garden's area was a rough rectangle laid 
out with Popsicle sticks and twine. Orin was removing rocks and hard clods from the 
Moms's path as she worked the rented Rototiller, a wheelbarrow-shaped, gas-driven 
thing that roared and snorted and bucked and he remembers seemed to propel the 
Moms rather than vice versa, the Moms very tall and having to stoop painfully to hold 
on, her feet leaving drunken prints in the tilled earth. He remembers that in the middle 
of the tilling I came tear-assing out the door and into the backyard wearing some sort of 
fuzzy red Pooh-wear, crying, holding out something he said was really unpleasant- 
looking in my upturned palm. He says I was around five and crying and was vividly red in 
the cold spring air. I was saying something over and over; he couldn't make it out until 
our mother saw me and shut down the tiller, ears ringing, and came over to see what I 
was holding out. This turned out to have been a large patch of mold — Orin posits from 
some dark corner of the Weston home's basement, which was warm from the furnace 
and flooded every spring. The patch itself he describes as horrific: darkly green, glossy, 
vaguely hirsute, speckled with parasitic fungal points of yellow, orange, red. Worse, they 



could see that the patch looked oddly incomplete, gnawed-on; and some of the 
nauseous stuff was smeared around my open mouth. 'I ate this,' was what I was saying. I 
held the patch out to the Moms, who had her contacts out for the dirty work, and at 
first, bending way down, saw only her crying child, hand out, proffering; and in that 
most maternal of reflexes she, who feared and loathed more than anything spoilage and 
filth, reached to take whatever her baby held out — as in how many used heavy 
Kleenex, spit-back candies, wads of chewed-out gum in how many theaters, airports, 
backseats, tournament lounges? 0. stood there, he says, hefting a cold clod, playing 
with the Velcro on his puffy coat, watching as the Moms, bent way down to me, hand 
reaching, her lowering face with its presbyopic squint, suddenly stopped, froze, 
beginning to I.D. what it was I held out, countenancing evidence of oral contact with 
same. He remembers her face as past describing. Her outstretched hand, still 
Rototrembling, hung in the air before mine. 

'I ate this,' I said. 

'Pardon me?' 

0. says he can only remember (sic) saying something caustic as he limboed a crick out 
of his back. He says he must have felt a terrible impending anxiety. The Moms refused 
ever even to go into the damp basement. I had stopped crying, he remembers, and 
simply stood there, the size and shape of a hydrant, in red PJ's with attached feet, 
holding out the mold, seriously, like the report of some kind of audit. 

0. says his memory diverges at this point, probably as a result of anxiety. In his first 
memory, the Moms's path around the yard is a broad circle of hysteria: 

'God!' she calls out. 

'Help! My son ate this!' she yells in Orin's second and more fleshed-out recollection, 
yelling it over and over, holding the speckled patch aloft in a pincer of fingers, running 
around and around the garden's rectangle while 0. gaped at his first real sight of adult 
hysteria. Suburban neighbors' heads appeared in windows and over the fences, looking. 
0. remembers me tripping over the garden's laid-out twine, getting up dirty, crying, 
trying to follow. 

'God! Help! My son ate this! Help!' she kept yelling, running a tight pattern just inside 
the square of string; and my brother Orin remembers noting how even in hysterical 
trauma her flight-lines were plumb, her footprints Native-American-straight, her turns, 
inside the ideogram of string, crisp and martial, crying 'My son ate this! Help!' and 
lapping me twice before the memory recedes. 

'My application's not bought,' I am telling them, calling into the darkness of the red 
cave that opens out before closed eyes. 'I am not just a boy who plays tennis. I have an 
intricate history. Experiences and feelings. I'm complex. 

'I read,' I say. 'I study and read. I bet I've read everything you've read. Don't think I 
haven't. I consume libraries. I wear out spines and ROM-drives. I do things like get in a 
taxi and say, "The library, and step on it." My instincts concerning syntax and mechanics 
are better than your own, I can tell, with due respect. 

'But it transcends the mechanics. I'm not a machine. I feel and believe. I have opinions. 
Some of them are interesting. I could, if you'd let me, talk and talk. Let's talk about 



anything. I believe the influence of Kierkegaard on Camus is underestimated. I believe 
Dennis Gabor may very well have been the Antichrist. I believe Hobbes is just Rousseau 
in a dark mirror. I believe, with Hegel, that transcendence is absorption. I could interface 
you guys right under the table,' I say. Tm not just a creatus, manufactured, conditioned, 
bred for a function.' 

I open my eyes. 'Please don't think I don't care.' 

I look out. Directed my way is horror. I rise from the chair. I see jowls sagging, 
eyebrows high on trembling foreheads, cheeks bright-white. The chair recedes below 
me. 

'Sweet mother of Christ,' the Director says. 

Tm fine,' I tell them, standing. From the yellow Dean's expression, there's a brutal 
wind blowing from my direction. Academics' face has gone instantly old. Eight eyes have 
become blank discs that stare at whatever they see. 

'Good God,' whispers Athletics. 

'Please don't worry,' I say. 'I can explain.' I soothe the air with a casual hand. 

Both my arms are pinioned from behind by the Director of Comp., who wrestles me 
roughly down, on me with all his weight. I taste floor. 

'What's wrong?' 

I say 'Nothing is wrong.' 

'It's all right! I'm here!' the Director is calling into my ear. 

'Get help!' cries a Dean. 

My forehead is pressed into parquet I never knew could be so cold. I am arrested. I try 
to be perceived as limp and pliable. My face is mashed flat; Comp.'s weight makes it 
hard to breathe. 

'Try to listen,' I say very slowly, muffled by the floor. 

'What in God's name are those...,' one Dean cries shrilly, '...those sounds?' 

There are clicks of a phone console's buttons, shoes' heels moving, pivoting, a sheaf of 
flimsy pages falling. 

'God!' 

'Help!' 

The door's base opens at the left periphery: a wedge of halogen hall-light, white 
sneakers and a scuffed Nunn Bush. 'Let him up!' That's deLint. 

'There is nothing wrong,' I say slowly to the floor. Tm in here.' 

I'm raised by the crutches of my underarms, shaken toward what he must see as calm 
by a purple-faced Director: 'Get a grip, son!' 

DeLint at the big man's arm: 'Stop it!' 

'I am not what you see and hear.' 

Distant sirens. A crude half nelson. Forms at the door. A young Hispanic woman holds 
her palm against her mouth, looking. 

Tm not,' I say. 

You have to love old-fashioned men's rooms: the citrus scent of deodorant disks in the 
long porcelain trough; the stalls with wooden doors in frames of cool marble; these thin 
sinks in rows, basins supported by rickety alphabets of exposed plumbing; mirrors over 
metal shelves; behind all the voices the slight sound of a ceaseless trickle, inflated by 



echo against wet porcelain and a cold tile floor whose mosaic pattern looks almost 
Islamic at this close range. 

The disorder I've caused revolves all around. I've been half-dragged, still pinioned, 
through a loose mob of Administrative people by the Comp. Director — who appears to 
have thought variously that I am having a seizure (prying open my mouth to check for a 
throat clear of tongue), that I am somehow choking (a textbook Heimlich that left me 
whooping), that I am psychotically out of control (various postures and grips designed to 
transfer that control to him) — while about us roil deLint, trying to restrain the 
Director's restraint of me, the varsity tennis coach restraining deLint, my mother's half- 
brother speaking in rapid combinations of polysyllables to the trio of Deans, who 
variously gasp, wring hands, loosen neckties, waggle digits in C.T.'s face, and make poses 
with sheafs of now-pretty-clearly-superfluous application forms. 

I am rolled over supine on the geometric tile. I am concentrating docilely on the 
question why U.S. restrooms always appear to us as infirmaries for public distress, the 
place to regain control. My head is cradled in a knelt Director's lap, which is soft, my 
face being swabbed with dusty-brown institutional paper towels he received from some 
hand out of the crowd overhead, staring with all the blankness I can summon into his 
jowls' small pocks, worst at the blurred jawline, of scarring from long-ago acne. Uncle 
Charles, a truly unparalleled slinger of shit, is laying down an enfilade of same, trying to 
mollify men who seem way more in need of a good brow-mopping than I. 

'He's fine,' he keeps saying. 'Look at him, calm as can be, lying there.' 

'You didn't see what happened in there,' a hunched Dean responds through a face 
webbed with fingers. 

'Excited, is all he gets, sometimes, an excitable kid, impressed with —' 

'But the sounds he made.' 

'Undescribable.' 

'Like an animal.' 

'Subanimalistic noises and sounds.' 

'Nor let's not forget the gestures.' 

'Have you ever gotten help for this boy Dr. Tavis?' 

'Like some sort of animal with something in its mouth.' 

'This boy is damaged.' 

'Like a stick of butter being hit with a mallet.' 

'A writhing animal with a knife in its eye.' 

'What were you possibly about, trying to enroll this —' 

'And his arms.' 

'You didn't see it, Tavis. His arms were —' 

'Flailing. This sort of awful reaching drumming wriggle. Waggling,' the group looking 
briefly at someone outside my sight trying to demonstrate something. 

'Like a time-lapse, a flutter of some sort of awful... growth.' 

'Sounded most of all like a drowning goat. A goat, drowning in something viscous.' 

'This strangled series of bleats and —' 

'Yes they waggled.' 

'So suddenly a bit of excited waggling's a crime, now?' 



'You, sir, are in trouble. You are in trouble.' 

'His face. As if he was strangling. Burning. I believe I've seen a vision of hell.' 

'He has some trouble communicating, he's communicatively challenged, no one's 
denying that.' 

'The boy needs care.' 

'Instead of caring for the boy you send him here to enroll, compete?' 

'Hal?' 

'You have not in your most dreadful fantasies dreamt of the amount of trouble you 
have bought yourself. Dr. so-called Headmaster, educator.' 

'...were given to understand this was all just a formality. You took him aback, is all. Shy 

_i 

'And you. White. You sought to recruit him!' 

'— and terribly impressed and excited, in there, without us, his support system, whom 
you asked to leave, which if you'd —' 

'I'd only seen him play. On court he's gorgeous. Possibly a genius. We had no idea. The 
brother's in the bloody NFL for God's sake. Here's a top player, we thought, with 
Southwest roots. His stats were off the chart. We watched him through the whole 
WhataBurger last fall. Not a waggle or a noise. We were watching ballet out there, a 
mate remarked, after.' 

'Damn right you were watching ballet out there. White. This boy is a balletic athlete, a 
player.' 

'Some kind of athletic savant then. Balletic compensation for deep problems which 
you sir choose to disguise by muzzling the boy in there.' An expensive pair of Brazilian 
espadrilles goes by on the left and enters a stall, and the espadrilles come around and 
face me. The urinal trickles behind the voices' small echoes. 

'— haps we'll just be on our way,' C.T. is saying. 

'The integrity of my sleep has been forever compromised, sir.' 

'— think you could pass off a damaged applicant, fabricate credentials and shunt him 
through a kangaroo-interview and inject him into all the rigors of college life?' 

'Hal here functions, you ass. Given a supportive situation. He's fine when he's by 
himself. Yes he has some trouble with excitability in conversation. Did you once hear 
him try to deny that?' 

'We witnessed something only marginally mammalian in there, sir.' 

'Like hell. Have a look. How's the excitable little guy doing down there, Aubrey, does it 
look to you?' 

'You, sir, are quite possibly ill. This affair is not concluded.' 

'What ambulance? Don't you guys listen? I'm telling you there's —' 

'Hal? Hal?' 

'Dope him up, seek to act as his mouthpiece, muzzling, and now he lies there 
catatonic, staring.' 

The crackle of deLint's knees. 'Hal?' 

'— inflate this publicly in any distorted way. The Academy has distinguished alumni, 
litigators at counsel. Hal here is provably competent. Credentials out the bazoo. Bill. The 
boy reads like a vacuum. Digests things.' 



I simply lie there, listening, smelling the paper towel, watching an espadrille pivot. 

'There's more to life than sitting there interfacing, it might be a newsflash to you.' 

And who could not love that special and leonine roar of a public toilet? 

Not for nothing did Orin say that people outdoors down here just scuttle in vectors 
from air conditioning to air conditioning. The sun is a hammer. I can feel one side of my 
face start to cook. The blue sky is glossy and fat with heat, a few thin cirri sheared to 
blown strands like hair at the rims. The traffic is nothing like Boston. The stretcher is the 
special type, with restraining straps at the extremities. The same Aubrey deLint I'd 
dismissed for years as a 2-D martinet knelt gurneyside to squeeze my restrained hand 
and say 'Just hang in there, Buckaroo,' before moving back into the administrative fray 
at the ambulance's doors. It is a special ambulance, dispatched from I'd rather not dwell 
on where, with not only paramedics but some kind of psychiatric M.D. on board. The 
medics lift gently and are handy with straps. The M.D., his back up against the 
ambulance's side, has both hands up in dispassionate mediation between the Deans and 
C.T., who keeps stabbing skyward with his cellular's antenna as if it were a sabre, 
outraged that I'm being needlessly ambulanced off to some Emergency Room against 
my will and interests. The issue whether the damaged even have interested wills is 
shallowly hashed out as some sort of ultra-mach fighter too high overhead to hear slices 
the sky from south to north. The M.D. has both hands up and is patting the air to signify 
dispassion. He has a big blue jaw. At the only other emergency room I have ever been in, 
almost exactly one year back, the psychiatric stretcher was wheeled in and then parked 
beside the waiting-room chairs. These chairs were molded orange plastic; three of them 
down the row were occupied by different people all of whom were holding empty 
prescription bottles and perspiring freely. This would have been bad enough, but in the 
end chair, right up next to the strap-secured head of my stretcher, was a T-shirted 
woman with barnwood skin and a trucker's cap and a bad starboard list who began to 
tell me, lying there restrained and immobile, about how she had seemingly overnight 
suffered a sudden and anomalous gigantism in her right breast, which she referred to as 
a titty; she had an almost parodic Quebecois accent and described the 'titty's' present¬ 
ing history and possible diagnoses for almost twenty minutes before I was rolled away. 
The jet's movement and trail seem incisionish, as if white meat behind the blue were 
exposed and widening in the wake of the blade. I once saw the word KNIFE finger- 
written on the steamed mirror of a nonpublic bathroom. I have become an infantophile. 
I am forced to roll my closed eyes either up or to the side to keep the red cave from 
bursting into flames from the sunlight. The street's passing traffic is constant and seems 
to go 'Hush, hush, hush.' The sun, if your fluttering eye catches it even slightly, gives you 
the blue and red floaters a flashbulb gives you. 'Why not? Why not? Why not not, then, 
if the best reasoning you can contrive is why not?' C.T.'s voice, receding with outrage. 
Only the gallant stabs of his antenna are now visible, just inside my sight's right frame. I 
will be conveyed to an Emergency Room of some kind, where I will be detained as long 
as I do not respond to questions, and then, when I do respond to questions, I will be 
sedated; so it will be inversion of standard travel, the ambulance and ER: I'll make the 
journey first, then depart. I think very briefly of the late Cosgrove Watt. I think of the 
hypophalangial Grief-Therapist. I think of the Moms, alphabetizing cans of soup in the 



cabinet over the microwave. Of Himself's umbrella hung by its handle from the edge of 
the mail table just inside the Headmaster's House's foyer. The bad ankle hasn't ached 
once this whole year. I think of John N. R. Wayne, who would have won this year's 
WhataBurger, standing watch in a mask as Donald Gately and I dig up my father's head. 
There's very little doubt that Wayne would have won. And Venus Williams owns a ranch 
outside Green Valley; she may well attend the 18's Boys' and Girls' finals. I will be out in 
plenty of time for tomorrow's semi; I trust Uncle Charles. Tonight's winner is almost sure 
to be Dymphna, sixteen but with a birthday two weeks under the 15 April deadline; and 
Dymphna will still be tired tomorrow at 0830, while I, sedated, will have slept like a 
graven image. I have never before faced Dymphna in tournament play, nor played with 
the sonic balls the blind require, but I watched him barely dispatch Petropolis Kahn in 
the Round of 16, and I know he is mine. It will start in the E.R., at the intake desk if C.T.'s 
late in following the ambulance, or in the green-tiled room after the room with the 
invasive-digital machines; or, given this special M.D.-supplied ambulance, maybe on the 
ride itself: some blue-jawed M.D. scrubbed to an antiseptic glow with his name sewn in 
cursive on his white coat's breast pocket and a quality desk-set pen, wanting gurneyside 
Q&A, etiology and diagnosis by Socratic method, ordered and point-by-point. There are, 
by the O.E.D. Vi's count, nineteen nonarchaic synonyms for unresponsive, of which nine 
are Latinate and four Saxonic. I will play either Stice or Polep in Sunday's final. Maybe in 
front of Venus Williams. It will be someone blue-collar and unlicensed, though, 
inevitably — a nurse's aide with quick-bit nails, a hospital security guy, a tired Cuban 
orderly who addresses me as jou — who will, looking down in the middle of some kind 
of bustled task, catch what he sees as my eye and ask So yo then man what's your story? 


YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


Where was the woman who said she'd come. She said she would come. Erdedy 
thought she'd have come by now. He sat and thought. He was in the living room. When 
he started waiting one window was full of yellow light and cast a shadow of light across 
the floor and he was still sitting waiting as that shadow began to fade and was 
intersected by a brightening shadow from a different wall's window. There was an insect 
on one of the steel shelves that held his audio equipment. The insect kept going in and 
out of one of the holes on the girders that the shelves fit into. The insect was dark and 
had a shiny case. He kept looking over at it. Once or twice he started to get up to go 
over closer to look at it, but he was afraid that if he came closer and saw it closer he 
would kill it, and he was afraid to kill it. He did not use the phone to call the woman 



who'd promised to come because if he tied up the line and if it happened to be the time 
when maybe she was trying to call him he was afraid she would hear the busy signal and 
think him disinterested and get angry and maybe take what she'd promised him 
somewhere else. 

She had promised to get him a fifth of a kilogram of marijuana, 200 grams of unusually 
good marijuana, for $1250 U.S. He had tried to stop smoking marijuana maybe 70 or 80 
times before. Before this woman knew him. She did not know he had tried to stop. He 
always lasted a week, or two weeks, or maybe two days, and then he'd think and decide 
to have some in his home one more last time. One last final time he'd search out 
someone new, someone he hadn't already told that he had to stop smoking dope and 
please under no circumstances should they procure him any dope. It had to be a third 
party, because he'd told every dealer he knew to cut him off. And the third party had to 
be someone all-new, because each time he got some he knew this time had to be the 
last time, and so told them, asked them, as a favor, never to get him any more, ever. 
And he never asked a person again once he'd told them this, because he was proud, and 
also kind, and wouldn't put anyone in that kind of contradictory position. Also he 
considered himself creepy when it came to dope, and he was afraid that others would 
see that he was creepy about it as well. He sat and thought and waited in an uneven X 
of light through two different windows. Once or twice he looked at the phone. The 
insect had disappeared back into the hole in the steel girder a shelf fit into. 

She'd promised to come at one certain time, and it was past that time. Finally he gave 
in and called her number, using just audio, and it rang several times, and he was afraid 
of how much time he was taking tying up the line and he got her audio answering 
device, the message had a snatch of ironic pop music and her voice and a male voice 
together saying we'll call you back, and the 'we' made them sound like a couple, the 
man was a handsome black man who was in law school, she designed sets, and he didn't 
leave a message because he didn't want her to know how much now he felt like he 
needed it. He had been very casual about the whole thing. She said she knew a guy just 
over the river in Allston who sold high-resin dope in moderate bulk, and he'd yawned 
and said well, maybe, well, hey, why not, sure, special occasion, I haven't bought any in I 
don't know how long. She said he lived in a trailer and had a harelip and kept snakes and 
had no phone, and was basically just not what you'd call a pleasant or attractive person 
at all, but the guy in Allston frequently sold dope to theater people in Cambridge, and 
had a devoted following. He said he was trying to even remember when was the last 
time he'd bought any, it had been so long. He said he guessed he'd have her get a 
decent amount, he said he'd had some friends call him in the recent past and ask if he 
could get them some. He had this thing where he'd frequently say he was getting dope 
mostly for friends. Then if the woman didn't have it when she said she'd have it for him 
and he became anxious about it he could tell the woman that it was his friends who 
were becoming anxious, and he was sorry to bother the woman about something so 
casual but his friends were anxious and bothering him about it and he just wanted to 
know what he could maybe tell them. He was caught in the middle, is how he would 
represent it. He could say his friends had given him their money and were now anxious 
and exerting pressure, calling and bothering him. This tactic was not possible with this 



woman who'd said she'd come with it because he hadn't yet given her the $1250. She 
would not let him. She was well off. Her family was well off, she'd said to explain how 
her condominium was as nice as it was when she worked designing sets for a Cambridge 
theater company that seemed to do only German plays, dark smeary sets. She didn't 
care much about the money, she said she'd cover the cost herself when she got out to 
the Allston Spur to see whether the guy was at home in the trailer as she was certain he 
would be this particular afternoon, and he could just reimburse her when she brought it 
to him. This arrangement, very casual, made him anxious, so he'd been even more 
casual and said sure, fine, whatever. Thinking back, he was sure he'd said whatever, 
which in retrospect worried him because it might have sounded as if he didn't care at 
all, not at all, so little that it wouldn't matter if she forgot to get it or call, and once he'd 
made the decision to have marijuana in his home one more time it mattered a lot. It 
mattered a lot. He'd been too casual with the woman, he should have made her take 
$1250 from him up front, claiming politeness, claiming he didn't want to inconvenience 
her financially over something so trivial and casual. Money created a sense of obligation, 
and he should have wanted the woman to feel obliged to do what she'd said, once what 
she'd said she'd do had set him off inside. Once he'd been set off inside, it mattered so 
much that he was somehow afraid to show how much it mattered. Once he had asked 
her to get it, he was committed to several courses of action. The insect on the shelf was 
back. It didn't seem to do anything. It just came out of the hole in the girder onto the 
edge of the steel shelf and sat there. After a while it would disappear back into the hole 
in the girder, and he was pretty sure it didn't do anything in there either. He felt similar 
to the insect inside the girder his shelf was connected to, but was not sure just how he 
was similar. Once he'd decided to own marijuana one more last time, he was committed 
to several courses of action. He had to modem in to the agency and say that there was 
an emergency and that he was posting an e-note on a colleague's TP asking her to cover 
his calls for the rest of the week because he'd be out of contact for several days due to 
this emergency. He had to put an audio message on his answering device saying that 
starting that afternoon he was going to be unreachable for several days. He had to clean 
his bedroom, because once he had dope he would not leave his bedroom except to go 
to the refrigerator and the bathroom, and even then the trips would be very quick. He 
had to throw out all his beer and liquor, because if he drank alcohol and smoked dope at 
the same time he would get dizzy and ill, and if he had alcohol in the house he could not 
be relied on not to drink it once he started smoking dope. He'd had to do some 
shopping. He'd had to lay in supplies. Now just one of the insect's antennae was pro¬ 
truding from the hole in the girder. It protruded, but it did not move. He had had to buy 
soda, Oreos, bread, sandwich meat, mayonnaise, tomatoes, M&M's, Almost Home 
cookies, ice cream, a Pepperidge Farm frozen chocolate cake, and four cans of canned 
chocolate frosting to be eaten with a large spoon. He'd had to log an order to rent film 
cartridges from the InterLace entertainment outlet. He'd had to buy antacids for the 
discomfort that eating all he would eat would cause him late at night. He'd had to buy a 
new bong, because each time he finished what simply had to be his last bulk-quantity of 
marijuana he decided that that was it, he was through, he didn't even like it anymore, 
this was it, no more hiding, no more imposing on his colleagues and putting different 



messages on his answering device and moving his car away from his condominium and 
closing his windows and curtains and blinds and living in quick vectors between his 
bedroom's InterLace teleputer's films and his refrigerator and his toilet, and he would 
take the bong he'd used and throw it away wrapped in several plastic shopping bags. His 
refrigerator made its own ice in little cloudy crescent blocks and he loved it, when he 
had dope in his home he always drank a great deal of cold soda and ice water. His 
tongue almost swelled at just the thought. He looked at the phone and the clock. He 
looked at the windows but not at the foliage and blacktop driveway beyond the 
windows. He had already vacuumed his Venetian blinds and curtains, everything was 
ready to be shut down. Once the woman who said she'd come had come, he would shut 
the whole system down. It occurred to him that he would disappear into a hole in a 
girder inside him that supported something else inside him. He was unsure what the 
thing inside him was and was unprepared to commit himself to the course of action that 
would be required to explore the question. It was now almost three hours past the time 
when the woman had said she would come. A counselor, Randi, with an i, with a 
mustache like a Mountie, had told him in the outpatient treatment program he'd gone 
through two years ago that he seemed insufficiently committed to the course of action 
that would be required to remove substances from his lifestyle. He'd had to buy a new 
bong at Bogart's in Porter Square, Cambridge because whenever he finished the last of 
the substances on hand he always threw out all his bongs and pipes, screens and tubes 
and rolling papers and roach clips, lighters and Visine and Pepto-Bismol and cookies and 
frosting, to eliminate all future temptation. He always felt a sense of optimism and firm 
resolve after he'd discarded the materials. He'd bought the new bong and laid in fresh 
supplies this morning, getting back home with everything well before the woman had 
said she would come. He thought of the new bong and new little packet of round brass 
screens in the Bogart's bag on his kitchen table in the sunlit kitchen and could not 
remember what color this new bong was. The last one had been orange, the one before 
that a dusky rose color that had turned muddy at the bottom from resin in just four 
days. He could not remember the color of this new last and final bong. He considered 
getting up to check the color of the bong he'd be using but decided that obsessive 
checking and convulsive movements could compromise the atmosphere of casual calm 
he needed to maintain while he waited, protruding but not moving, for the woman he'd 
met at a design session for his agency's small campaign for her small theater company's 
new Wedekind festival, while he waited for this woman, with whom he'd had 
intercourse twice, to honor her casual promise. He tried to decide whether the woman 
was pretty. Another thing he laid in when he'd committed himself to one last marijuana 
vacation was petroleum jelly. When he smoked marijuana he tended to masturbate a 
great deal, whether or not there were opportunities for intercourse, opting when he 
smoked for masturbation over intercourse, and the petroleum jelly kept him from 
returning to normal function all tender and sore. He was also hesitant to get up and 
check the color of his bong because he would have to pass right by the telephone 
console to get to the kitchen, and he didn't want to be tempted to call the woman 
who'd said she would come again because he felt creepy about bothering her about 
something he'd represented as so casual, and was afraid that several audio hang-ups on 



her answering device would look even creepier, and also he felt anxious about maybe 
tying up the line at just the moment when she called, as she certainly would. He decided 
to get Call Waiting added to his audio phone service for a nominal extra charge, then 
remembered that since this was positively the last time he would or even could indulge 
what Randi, with an /, had called an addiction every bit as rapacious as pure alcoholism, 
there would be no real need for Call Waiting, since a situation like the present one could 
never arise again. This line of thinking almost caused him to become angry. To ensure 
the composure with which he sat waiting in light in his chair he focused his senses on his 
surroundings. No part of the insect he'd seen was now visible. The clicks of his portable 
clock were really composed of three smaller clicks, signifying he supposed preparation, 
movement, and readjustment. He began to grow disgusted with himself for waiting so 
anxiously for the promised arrival of something that had stopped being fun anyway. He 
didn't even know why he liked it anymore. It made his mouth dry and his eyes dry and 
red and his face sag, and he hated it when his face sagged, it was as if all the integrity of 
all the muscles in his face was eroded by marijuana, and he got terribly self-conscious 
about the fact that his face was sagging, and had long ago forbidden himself to smoke 
dope around anyone else. He didn't even know what its draw was anymore. He couldn't 
even be around anyone else if he'd smoked marijuana that same day, it made him so 
self-conscious. And the dope often gave him a painful case of pleurisy if he smoked it for 
more than two straight days of heavy continuous smoking in front of the InterLace 
viewer in his bedroom. It made his thoughts jut out crazily in jagged directions and 
made him stare raptly like an unbright child at entertainment cartridges — when he laid 
in film cartridges for a vacation with marijuana, he favored cartridges in which a lot of 
things blew up and crashed into each other, which he was sure an unpleasant-fact 
specialist like Randi would point out had implications that were not good. He pulled his 
necktie down smooth while he gathered his intellect, will, self-knowledge, and 
conviction and determined that when this latest woman came as she surely would this 
would simply be his very last marijuana debauch. He'd simply smoke so much so fast 
that it would be so unpleasant and the memory of it so repulsive that once he'd 
consumed it and gotten it out of his home and his life as quickly as possible he would 
never want to do it again. He would make it his business to create a really bad set of 
debauched associations with the stuff in his memory. The dope scared him. It made him 
afraid. It wasn't that he was afraid of the dope, it was that smoking it made him afraid of 
everything else. It had long since stopped being a release or relief or fun. This last time, 
he would smoke the whole 200 grams —120 grams cleaned, destemmed — in four 
days, over an ounce a day, all in tight heavy economical one-hitters off a quality virgin 
bong, an incredible, insane amount per day, he'd make it a mission, treating it like a 
penance and behavior-modification regimen all at once, he'd smoke his way through 
thirty high-grade grams a day, starting the moment he woke up and used ice water to 
detach his tongue from the roof of his mouth and took an antacid — averaging out to 
200 or 300 heavy bong-hits per day, an insane and deliberately unpleasant amount, and 
he'd make it a mission to smoke it continuously, even though if the marijuana was as 
good as the woman claimed he'd do five hits and then not want to take the trouble to 
load and one-hit any more for at least an hour. But he would force himself to do it 



anyway. He would smoke it all even if he didn't want it. Even if it started to make him 
dizzy and ill. He would use discipline and persistence and will and make the whole 
experience so unpleasant, so debased and debauched and unpleasant, that his behavior 
would be henceforward modified, he'd never even want to do it again because the 
memory of the insane four days to come would be so firmly, terribly emblazoned in his 
memory. He'd cure himself by excess. He predicted that the woman, when she came, 
might want to smoke some of the 200 grams with him, hang out, hole up, listen to some 
of his impressive collection of Tito Puente recordings, and probably have intercourse. He 
had never once had actual intercourse on marijuana. Frankly, the idea repelled him. Two 
dry mouths bumping at each other, trying to kiss, his selfconscious thoughts twisting 
around on themselves like a snake on a stick while he bucked and snorted dryly above 
her, his swollen eyes red and his face sagging so that its slack folds maybe touched, 
limply, the folds of her own loose sagging face is it sloshed back and forth on his pillow, 
its mouth working dryly. The thought was repellent. He decided he'd have her toss him 
what she'd promised to bring, and then would from a distance toss back to her the 
$1250 U.S. in large bills and tell her not to let the door hit her on the butt on the way 
out. He'd say ass instead of butt. He'd be so rude and unpleasant to her that the 
memory of his lack of basic decency and of her tight offended face would be a further 
disincentive ever, in the future, to risk calling her and repeating the course of action he 
had now committed himself to. 

He had never been so anxious for the arrival of a woman he did not want to see. He 
remembered clearly the last woman he'd involved in his trying just one more vacation 
with dope and drawn blinds. The last woman had been something called an 
appropriation artist, which seemed to mean that she copied and embellished other art 
and then sold it through a prestigious Marlborough Street gallery. She had an artistic 
manifesto that involved radical feminist themes. He'd let her give him one of her smaller 
paintings, which covered half the wall over his bed and was of a famous film actress 
whose name he always had a hard time recalling and a less famous film actor, the two of 
them entwined in a scene from a well-known old film, a romantic scene, an embrace, 
copied from a film history textbook and much enlarged and made stilted, and with 
obscenities scrawled all over it in bright red letters. The last woman had been sexy but 
not pretty, as the woman he now didn't want to see but was waiting anxiously for was 
pretty in a faded withered Cambridge way that made her seem pretty but not sexy. The 
appropriation artist had been led to believe that he was a former speed addict, 
intravenous addiction to methamphetamine hydrochloride 1 is what he remembered 
telling that one, he had even described the awful taste of hydrochloride in the addict's 
mouth immediately after injection, he had researched the subject carefully. She had 
been further led to believe that marijuana kept him from using the drug with which he 
really had a problem, and so that if he seemed anxious to get some once she'd offered 
to get him some it was only because he was heroically holding out against much darker 
deeper more addictive urges and he needed her to help him. He couldn't quite 
remember when or how she'd been given all these impressions. He had not sat down 
and outright bold-faced lied to her, it had been more of an impression he'd conveyed 
and nurtured and allowed to gather its own life and force. The insect was now entirely 



visible. It was on the shelf that held his digital equalizer. The insect might never actually 
have retreated all the way back into the hole in the shelf's girder. What looked like its 
reemergence might just have been a change in his attention or the two windows' light 
or the visual context of his surroundings. The girder protruded from the wall and was a 
triangle of dull steel with holes for shelves to fit into. The metal shelves that held his 
audio equipment were painted a dark industrial green and were originally made for 
holding canned goods. They were designed to be extra kitchen shelves. The insect sat 
inside its dark shiny case with an immobility that seemed like the gathering of a force, it 
sat like the hull of a vehicle from which the engine had been for the moment removed. 
It was dark and had a shiny case and antennae that protruded but did not move. He had 
to use the bathroom. His last piece of contact from the appropriation artist, with whom 
he had had intercourse, and who during intercourse had sprayed some sort of perfume 
up into the air from a mister she held in her left hand as she lay beneath him making a 
wide variety of sounds and spraying perfume up into the air, so that he felt the cold mist 
of it settling on his back and shoulders and was chilled and repelled, his last piece of 
contact after he'd gone into hiding with the marijuana she'd gotten for him had been a 
card she'd mailed that was a pastiche photo of a doormat of coarse green plastic grass 
with WELCOME on it and next to it a flattering publicity photo of the appropriation artist 
from her Back Bay gallery, and between them an unequal sign, which was an equal sign 
with a diagonal slash across it, and also an obscenity he had assumed was directed at 
him magisculed in red grease pencil along the bottom, with multiple exclamation points. 
She had been offended because he had seen her every day for ten days, then when 
she'd finally obtained 50 grams of genetically enhanced hydroponic marijuana for him 
he had said that she'd saved his life and he was grateful and the friends for whom he'd 
promised to get some were grateful and she had to go right now because he had an 
appointment and had to take off, but that he would doubtless be calling her later that 
day, and they had shared a moist kiss, and she had said she could feel his heart 
pounding right through his suit coat, and she had driven away in her rusty unmuffled 
car, and he had gone and moved his own car to an underground garage several blocks 
away, and had run back and drawn the clean blinds and curtains, and changed the audio 
message on his answering device to one that described an emergency departure from 
town, and had drawn and locked his bedroom blinds, and had taken the new rose- 
colored bong out of its Bogart's bag, and was not seen for three days, and ignored over 
two dozen audio messages and protocols and e-notes expressing concern over his 
message's emergency, and had never contacted her again. He had hoped she would 
assume he had succumbed again to methamphetamine hydrochloride and was sparing 
her the agony of his descent back into the hell of chemical dependence. What it really 
was was that he had again decided those 50 grams of resin-soaked dope, which had 
been so potent that on the second day it had given him an anxiety attack so paralyzing 
that he had gone to the bathroom in a Tufts University commemorative ceramic stein to 
avoid leaving his bedroom, represented his very last debauch ever with dope, and that 
he had to cut himself off from all possible future sources of temptation and supply, and 
this surely included the appropriation artist, who had come with the stuff at precisely 
the time she'd promised, he recalled. From the street outside came the sound of a 



dumpster being emptied into an E.W.D. land barge. His shame at what she might on the 
other hand perceive as his slimy phallocentric conduct toward her made it easier for him 
to avoid her, as well. Though not shame, really. More like being uncomfortable at the 
thought of it. He had had to launder his bedding twice to get the smell of the perfume 
out. He went into the bathroom to use the bathroom, making it a point to look neither 
at the insect visible on the shelf to his left nor at the telephone console on its lacquer 
workstation to the right. He was committed to touching neither. Where was the woman 
who had said she'd come. The new bong in the Bogart's bag was orange, meaning he 
might have misremembered the bong before it as orange. It was a rich autumnal orange 
that lightened to more of a citrus orange when its plastic cylinder was held up to the 
late-afternoon light of the window over the kitchen sink. The metal of its stem and bowl 
was rough stainless steel, the kind with a grain, unpretty and all business. The bong was 
half a meter tall and had a weighted base covered in soft false suede. Its orange plastic 
was thick and the carb on the side opposite the stem had been raggedly cut so that 
rough shards of plastic protruded from the little hole and might well hurt his thumb 
when he smoked, which he decided to consider just part of the penance he would 
undertake after the woman had come and gone. He left the door to the bathroom open 
so that he would be sure to hear the telephone when it sounded or the buzzer to the 
front doors of his condominium complex when it sounded. In the bathroom his throat 
suddenly closed and he wept hard for two or three seconds before the weeping stopped 
abruptly and he could not get it to start again. It was now over four hours since the time 
the woman had casually committed to come. Was he in the bathroom or in his chair 
near the window and near his telephone console and the insect and the window that 
had admitted a straight rectangular bar of light when he began to wait. The light 
through this window was coming at an angle more and more oblique. Its shadow had 
become a parallelogram. The light through the southwest window was straight and 
reddening. He had thought he needed to use the bathroom but was unable to. He tried 
putting a whole stack of film cartridges into the dock of the disc-drive and then turning 
on the huge teleputer in his bedroom. He could see the piece of appropriation art in the 
mirror above the TP. He lowered the volume all the way and pointed the remote device 
at the TP like some sort of weapon. He sat on the edge of his bed with his elbows on his 
knees and scanned the stack of cartridges. Each cartridge in the dock dropped on 
command and began to engage the drive with an insectile click and whir, and he 
scanned it. But he was unable to distract himself with the TP because he was unable to 
stay with any one entertainment cartridge for more than a few seconds. The moment he 
recognized what exactly was on one cartridge he had a strong anxious feeling that there 
was something more entertaining on another cartridge and that he was potentially 
missing it. He realized that he would have plenty of time to enjoy all the cartridges, and 
realized intellectually that the feeling of deprived panic over missing something made 
no sense. The viewer hung on the wall, half again as large as the piece of feminist art. He 
scanned cartridges for some time. The telephone console sounded during this interval of 
anxious scanning. He was up and moving back out toward it before the first ring was 
completed, flooded with either excitement or relief, the TP's remote device still in his 
hand, but it was only a friend and colleague calling, and when he heard the voice that 



was not the woman who had promised to bring what he'd committed the next several 
days to banishing from his life forever he was almost sick with disappointment, with a 
great deal of mistaken adrenaline now shining and ringing in his system, and he got off 
the line with the colleague to clear the line and keep it available for the woman so fast 
that he was sure his colleague perceived him as either angry with him or just plain rude. 
He was further upset at the thought that his answering the telephone this late in the 
day did not jibe with the emergency message about being unreachable that would be on 
his answering device if the colleague called back after the woman had come and gone 
and he'd shut the whole system of his life down, and he was standing over the 
telephone console trying to decide whether the risk of the colleague or someone else 
from the agency calling back was sufficient to justify changing the audio message on the 
answering device to describe an emergency departure this evening instead of this 
afternoon, but he decided he felt that since the woman had definitely committed to 
coming, his leaving the message unchanged would be a gesture of fidelity to her 
commitment, and might somehow in some oblique way strengthen that commitment. 
The E.W.D. land barge was emptying dumpsters all up and down the street. He returned 
to his chair near the window. The disk drive and TP viewer were still on in his bedroom 
and he could see through the angle of the bedroom's doorway the lights from the high- 
definition screen blink and shift from one primary color to another in the dim room, and 
for a while he killed time casually by trying to imagine what entertaining scenes on the 
unwatched viewer the changing colors and intensities might signify. The chair faced the 
room instead of the window. Reading while waiting for marijuana was out of the 
question. He considered masturbating but did not. He didn't reject the idea so much as 
not react to it and watch as it floated away. He thought very broadly of desires and 
ideas being watched but not acted upon, he thought of impulses being starved of 
expression and drying out and floating dryly away, and felt on some level that this had 
something to do with him and his circumstances and what, if this grueling final debauch 
he'd committed himself to didn't somehow resolve the problem, would surely have to 
be called his problem, but he could not even begin to try to see how the image of 
desiccated impulses floating dryly related to either him or the insect, which had 
retreated back into its hole in the angled girder, because at this precise time his tele¬ 
phone and his intercom to the front door's buzzer both sounded at the same time, both 
loud and tortured and so abrupt they sounded yanked through a very small hole into the 
great balloon of colored silence he sat in, waiting, and he moved first toward the 
telephone console, then over toward his intercom module, then convulsively back 
toward the sounding phone, and then tried somehow to move toward both at once, 
finally, so that he stood splay-legged, arms wildly out as if something's been flung, 
splayed, entombed between the two sounds, without a thought in his head. 



1 APRIL — YEAR OF THE TUCKS MEDICATED PAD 


'All I know is my dad said to come here.' 

'Come right in. You'll see a chair to your immediate left.' 

'So I'm here.' 

'That's just fine. Seven-Up? Maybe some lemon soda?' 

'I guess not, thanks. I'm just here, is all, and I'm kind of wondering why my dad sent 
me down, you know. Your door there doesn't have anything on it, and I was just at the 
dentist last week, and so I'm wondering why I'm here, exactly, is all. That's why I'm not 
sitting down yet.' 

'You're how old, Hal, fourteen?' 

'I'll be eleven in June. Are you a dentist? Is this like a dental consult?' 

'You're here to converse.' 

'Converse?' 

'Yes. Pardon me while I key in this age-correction. Your father had listed you as 
fourteen, for some reason.' 

'Converse as in with you?' 

'You're here to converse with me, Hal, yes. I'm almost going to have to implore you to 
have a lemon soda. Your mouth is making those dry sticky inadequate-saliva sounds.' 

'Dr. Zegarelli says that's one reason for all the caries, is that I have low salivary output.' 

'Those dry sticky salivaless sounds which can be death to a good conversation.' 

'But I rode my bike all the way up here against the wind just to converse with you? Is 
the conversation supposed to start with me asking why?' 

'I'll begin by asking if you know the meaning of implore, Hal.' 

'Probably I'll go ahead and take a Seven-Up, then, if you're going to implore.' 

'I'll ask you again whether you know implore, young sir.' 

'Young sir?' 

'You're wearing that bow tie, after all. Isn't that rather an invitation to a young sir?' 

'Implore's a regular verb, transitive: to call upon, or for, in supplication; to pray to, or 
for, earnestly; to beseech; to entreat. Weak synonym: urge. Strong synonym: beg. 
Etymology unmixed: from Latin implorare, im meaning in, plorare meaning in this 
context to cry aloud. O.E.D. Condensed Volume Six page 1387 column twelve and a little 
bit of thirteen.' 

'Good lord she didn't exaggerate did she?' 

'I tend to get beat up, sometimes, at the Academy, for stuff like that. Does this bear on 
why I'm here? That I'm a continentally ranked junior tennis player who can also recite 
great chunks of the dictionary, verbatim, at will, and tends to get beat up, and wears a 
bow tie? Are you like a specialist for gifted kids? Does this mean they think I'm gifted?' 

SPFFFT. 'Here you are. Drink up.' 

'Thanks. SHULGSHULGSPAHHH... Whew. Ah.' 



'You were thirsty. 1 

'So then if I sit down you'll fill me in?' 

'...professional conversationalist knows his mucous membranes, after all.' 

'I might have to burp a little bit in a second, from the soda. I'm alerting you ahead of 
time.' 

'Hal, you are here because I am a professional conversationalist, and your father has 
made an appointment with me, for you, to converse.' 

'MYURP. Excuse me.' 

Tap tap tap tap. 

'SHULGSPAHHH.' 

Tap tap tap tap. 

'You're a professional conversationalist?' 

'I am, yes, as I believe I just stated, a professional conversationalist.' 

'Don't start looking at your watch, as if I'm taking up valuable time of yours. If Himself 
made the appointment and paid for it the time's supposed to be mine, right? Not yours. 
And then but what's that supposed to mean, "professional conversationalist"? A 
conversationalist is just one who converses much. You actually charge a fee to converse 
much?' 

'A conversationalist is also one who. I'm sure you'll recall, "excels in conversation.'" 

'That's Webster's Seventh. That's not the O.E.D.' 

Tap tap. 

'I'm an O.E.D. man. Doctor. If that's what you are. Are you a doctor? Do you have a 
doctorate? Most people like to put their diplomas up, I notice, if they have credentials. 
And Webster's Seventh isn't even up-to-date. Webster's Eighth amends to "one who 
converses with much enthusiasm.'" 

'Another Seven-Up?' 

'Is Himself still having this hallucination I never speak? Is that why he put the Moms up 
to having me bike up here? Himself is my dad. We call him Himself. As in quote "the 
man Himself." As it were. We call my mother the Moms. My brother coined the term. I 
understand this isn't unusual. I understand most more or less normal families address 
each other internally by means of pet names and terms and monikers. Don't even think 
about asking me what my little internal moniker is.' 

Tap tap tap. 

'But Himself hallucinates, sometimes, lately, you ought to be apprised, was the thrust. 
I'm wondering why the Moms let him send me pedalling up here uphill against the wind 
when I've got a challenge match at 3:00 to converse with an enthusiast with a blank 
door and no diplomas anywhere in view.' 

'I, in my small way, would like to think it had as much to do with me as with you. That 
my reputation preceded me.' 

'Isn't that usually a pejorative clause?' 

'I am wonderful fun to talk to. I'm a consummate professional. People leave my parlor 
in states. You are here. It's conversation-time. Shall we discuss Byzantine erotica?' 

'How did you know I was interested in Byzantine erotica?' 

'You seem persistently to confuse me with someone who merely hangs out a shingle 



with the word Conversationalist on it, and this operation with a fly-by-night one strung 
together with chewing gum and twine. You think I have no support staff? Researchers at 
my beck? You think we don't delve full-bore into the psyches of those for whom we've 
made appointments to converse? You don't think this fully accredited limited 
partnership would have an interest in obtaining data on what informs and stimulates 
our conversees?' 

'I know only one person who'd ever us e full-bore in casual conversation.' 

'There is nothing casual about a professional conversationalist and staff. We delve. We 
obtain, and then some. Young sir.' 

'Okay, Alexandrian or Constantinian?' 

'You think we haven't thoroughly researched your own connection with the whole 
current intra-Provincial crisis in southern Quebec?' 

'What intra-Provincial crisis in southern Quebec? I thought you wanted to talk racy 
mosaics.' 

'This is an upscale district of a vital North American metropolis, Hal. Standards here 
are upscale, and high. A professional conversationalist flat-out full-bore delves. Do you 
for one moment think that a professional plier of the trade of conversation would fail to 
probe beak-deep into your family's sordid liaison with the pan-Canadian Resistance's 
notorious M. DuPlessis and his malevolent but allegedly irresistible amanuensis-cum- 
operative, Luria P—?' 

'Listen, are you okay?' 

'Do you?' 

'I'm ten for Pete's sake. I think maybe your appointment calendar's squares got 
juggled. I'm the potentially gifted ten-year-old tennis and lexical prodigy whose mom's a 
continental mover and shaker in the prescriptive-grammar academic world and whose 
dad's a towering figure in optical and avant-garde film circles and single-handedly 
founded the Enfield Tennis Academy but drinks Wild Turkey at like 5:00 A.M. and 
pitches over sideways during dawn drills, on the courts, some days, and some days 
presents with delusions about people's mouths moving but nothing coming out. I'm not 
even up to/yet, in the condensed O.E.D., much less Quebec or malevolent Lurias.' 

'...of the fact that photos of the aforementioned... liaison being leaked to Der Spiegel 
resulted in the bizarre deaths of both an Ottawan paparazzo and a Bavarian 
international-affairs editor, of an alpenstock through the abdomen and an ill-swallowed 
cocktail onion, respectively?' 

'I just finished jew's-ear. I'm just starting on jew's-harp and the general theory of oral 
lyres. I've never even skied.' 

'That you could dare to imagine we'd fail conversationally to countenance certain 
weekly shall we say maternal ... assignations with a certain unnamed bisexual 
bassoonist in the Albertan Secret Guard's tactical-bands unit?' 

'Gee, is that the exit over there I see?' 

'...that your blithe inattention to your own dear grammatical mother's cavortings with 
not one not two but over thirty Near Eastern medical attaches...?' 

'Would it be rude to tell you your mustache is askew?' 

'...that her introduction of esoteric mnemonic steroids, stereo-chemically not 



dissimilar to your father's own daily hypodermic "mega-vitamin" supplement derived 
from a certain organic testosterone-regeneration compound distilled by the Jivaro 
shamen of the South-Central L.A. basin, into your innocent-looking bowl of morning 
Ralston...' 

'As a matter of fact I'll go ahead and tell you your whole face is kind of running, sort of, 
if you want to check. Your nose is pointing at your lap.' 

'That your quote-unquote "complimentary" Dunlop widebody tennis racquets' super¬ 
secret-formulaic composition materials of high-modulus-graphite-reinforced 
polycarbonate polybutylene resin are organochemically identical I say again identical to 
the gyroscopic balance sensor and mise-en-scene appropriation card and priapistic- 
entertainment cartridge implanted in your very own towering father's anaplastic 
cerebrum after his cruel series of detoxifications and convolution-smoothings and 
gastrectomy and prostatectomy and pancreatectomy and phalluctomy...' 

Tap tap. 'SHULGSPAHH.' 

'...could possibly escape the combined investigative attention of... ?' 

'And it strikes me I've definitely seen that argyle sweater-vest before. That's Himself's 
special Interdependence-Day-celebratory-dinner argyle sweater-vest, that he makes a 
point of never having cleaned. I know those stains. I was there for that clot of veal 
marsala right there. Is this whole appointment a date-connected thing? Is this April 
Fools, Dad, or do I need to call the Moms and C.T.?' 

'...who requires only daily evidence that you speak? That you recognize the occasional 
vista beyond your own generous Mondragonoid nose's fleshy tip?' 

'You rented a whole office and face for this, but leave your old unmistakable sweater- 
vest on? And how'd you even get down here before me, with the Mercury up on blocks 
after you... did you fool C.T. into giving you the keys to a functional car?' 

'Who used to pray daily for the day his own dear late father would sit, cough, open 
that bloody issue of the Tucson Citizen, and not turn that newspaper into the room's 
fifth wall? And who after all this light and noise has apparently spawned the same 
silence?' 

...

'Who's lived his whole ruddy bloody cruddy life in five-walled rooms?' 'Dad, I've got a 
duly scheduled challenge match with Schacht in like twelve minutes, wind at my 
downhill back or no. I've got this oral-lyrologist who's going to be outside Brighton Best 
Savings wearing a predesignated necktie at straight-up five. I have to mow his lawn for a 
month for this interview. I can't just sit here watching you think I'm mute while your 
fake nose points at the floor. And are you hearing me talking. Dad? It speaks. It accepts 
soda and defines implore and converses with you.' 

'Praying for just one conversation, amateur or no, that does not end in terror? That 
does not end like all the others: you staring, me swallowing?' 

...

'Son?' 


'Son?' 



9 MAY — YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT 


Another way fathers impact sons is that sons, once their voices have changed in 
puberty, invariably answer the telephone with the same locutions and intonations as 
their fathers. This holds true regardless of whether the fathers are still alive. 

Because he left his dormitory room before 0600 for dawn drills and often didn't get 
back there until after supper, packing his book bag and knapsack and gear bag for the 
whole day, together with selecting his best-strung racquets — it all took Hal some time. 
Plus he usually collected and packed and selected in the dark, and with stealth, because 
his brother Mario was usually still asleep in the other bed. Mario didn't drill and couldn't 
play, and needed all the sleep he could get. 

Hal held his complimentary gear bag and was putting different pairs of sweats to his 
face, trying to find the cleanest pair by smell, when the telephone console sounded. 
Mario thrashed and sat up in bed, a small hunched shape with a big head against the 
gray light of the window. Hal got to the console on the second ring and had the 
transparent phone's antenna out by the third. 

His way of answering the phone sounded like 'Mmmyellow.' 

'I want to tell you,' the voice on the phone said. 'My head is filled with things to say.' 

Hal held three pairs of E.T.A. sweatpants in the hand that didn't hold the phone. He 
saw his older brother succumb to gravity and fall back limp against the pillows. Mario 
often sat up and fell back still asleep. 

'I don't mind,' Hal said softly. 'I could wait forever.' 

'That's what you think,' the voice said. The connection was cut. It had been Orin. 

'Hey Hal?' 

The light in the room was a creepy gray, a kind of nonlight. Hal could hear Brandt 
laughing at something Kenkle had said, off down the hall, and the clank of their janitorial 
buckets. The person on the phone had been 0. 

'Hey Hal?' Mario was awake. It took four pillows to support Mario's oversized skull. His 
voice came from the tangled bedding. 'Is it still dark out, or is it me?' 

'Go back to sleep. It isn't even six.' Hal put the good leg into the sweatpants first. 

'Who was it?' 

Shoving three coverless Dunlop widebodies into the gear bag and zipping the bag 
partway up so the handles had room to stick out. Carrying all three bags back over to 
the console to deactivate the ringer on the phone. He said, 'No one you know, I don't 
think.' 

=========================================================================================
NOTES
=========================================================================================

1 Methamphetamine hydrochloride, a.k.a. crystal meth. 

2 Orin's never once darkened the door of any sort of therapy-professional, by the way, 
so his takes on his dreams are always generally pretty surface-level. 

3 E.T.A. is laid out as a cardioid, with the four main inward-facing bldgs, convexly 
rounded at the back and sides to yield a cardioid's curve, with the tennis courts and 
pavilions at the center and the staff and students' parking lots in back of Comm.-Ad. 
forming the little bashed-in dent that from the air gives the whole facility the Valentine- 
heart aspect that still wouldn't have been truly cardioid if the buildings themselves 
didn't have their convex bulges all derived from arcs of the same r, a staggering feat 
given the uneven ground and wildly different electrical-and-plumbing-conduit wallspace 
required by dormitories, administrative offices, and polyresinous Lung, pull-offable 
probably by on the whole East Coast one guy, E.T.A.'s original architect, Avril's old and 
very dear friend, the topology world's closed-curve-mapping-Obermensch A.Y. ('Vector- 
Field') Rickey of Brandeis U., now deceased, who used to wow Hal and Mario in Weston 
by taking off his vest without removing his suit jacket, which M. Pemulis years later 
exposed as a cheap parlor-trick-exploitation of certain basic features of continuous 
functions, which revelation Hal mourned in a Santa's-not-real type of secret way, and 
which Mario simply ignored, preferring to see the vest thing as plain magic. 

4 Those younger staffers who double as academic and athletic instructors are, by con¬ 
vention at North American tennis academies, known as 'prorectors.' 

5 Known usually as 'drines — i.e. lightweight speed: Cylert, Tenuate, 3 Fastin, Preludin, 
even sometimes Ritalin. It's worth an N.B. that, unlike Jim Troeltsch or the Preludin- 
happy Bridget Boone, Michael Pemulis (out of maybe some queer sort of blue-collar 
street-type honor) rarely ingests any 'drines before a match, reserving them for 
recreation — some people are wired to find heart-pounding eye-wobbling 'drine- 
stimulation recreational. 

a Tenuate's the trade name of diethylpropion hydrochloride, Marion Merrell Dow 
Pharmaceuticals, technically a prescription antiobesity agent, favored by some 
athletes for its mildly euphoric and resources-rallying properties w/o the tooth¬ 
grinding and hideous post-blood-spike crash that the hairier-chested 'drines like Fastin 
and Cylert inflict, though with a discomfitting tendency to cause post-spike ocular 
nystagmus. Nystagmus or no nystagmus, Tenuate's a particular favorite of Michael 
Pemulis, who hoards for personal ingestion every 75-mg. white Tenuate capsule he 
can lay hands on, and does not sell or trade them, except sometimes to roommate Jim 
Troeltsch, who nags Pemulis for them and also goes into Pemulis's special entrepot¬ 
yachting-cap and promotes still more of them on the sly, a couple at a time, feeling 
that they help his sports-color-commentary loquacity, which secret promotions 
Pemulis knows about all too well, and is biding his time to retaliate, never you fear. 

